Async Activity Completion (#6)
temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript: asynchronous-activity-completion/how-to-async-complete-activities.md

# How to Asynchronously Complete Activities

> Asynchronous Activity Completion calls can take a Task Token in as an argument. A Task Token is a unique identifier for an Activity Task Execution. It's essential for Temporal to track the specific Activity instance across machines.

Author: fixed

To use Asynchronous Activity Completions, there are three steps to follow:

1. **Provide Identifying Information**: The Activity provides the external system with identifying information needed to complete the Activity Execution. Identifying information can be a Task Token or a combination of Namespace, Workspace ID, and Activity ID.

> 2. **Async Activity Completion**: The Activity Function completes in a way that identifies it as waiting to be completed by an external system. You can throw [`CompleteAsyncError`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/activity.CompleteAsyncError) to make the Worker forget about this Activity. The Activity can then be completed asynchronously elsewhere.

Author: added

> 3. **Use Temporal Client**: Optionally, while the external work is being done, the Temporal Client can send heartbeats to update the progress of the Activity Execution. Eventually, the Temporal Client is used to complete the Activity, signaling the end of its execution with the result of the external work. To asynchronously complete an Activity, call[`AsyncCompletionClient`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.AsyncCompletionClient) which is a client for asynchronous completion and heartbeating of Activities.

Author: changed

```typescript
import { CompleteAsyncError, Context } from "@temporalio/activity";
import { AsyncCompletionClient } from "@temporalio/client";

export async function doSomethingAsync(): Promise<string> {
  //extracts task token
  const taskToken = Context.current().info.taskToken;
  setTimeout(() => doSomeWork(taskToken), 1000);
  throw new CompleteAsyncError();
}

// this work could be done in a different process or on a different machine
async function doSomeWork(taskToken: Uint8Array): Promise<void> {
  const client = new AsyncCompletionClient();
  // does some work...
  await client.complete(taskToken, "Job's done!");
}
```

Let's look at the above code step by step:

1. We began by extracting the Task Token that uniquely identifies the current Activity execution.
2. We then scheduled `doSomeWork` to be executed after a delay. The delay represents a stand-in for more complex asynchronous operations, like waiting for an external API response or processing that happens in a separate system.

> 3. We then throw the `CompleteAsyncError` to make the Worker forget about this Activity. This signals that the Activity has not completed yet and is waiting for an external completion, not immediately upon the function's return.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. We then threw the `CompleteAsyncError` to make the Worker forget about this Activity. This signaled that the Activity has not completed yet and is waiting for an external completion, not immediately upon the function's return.
```
Past tense to match above

Author: fixed

> 4. Finally, `AsyncCompletionClient` is used to asynchronously communicate the result of the asynchronous Activity back (identified by the Task Token) to the Workflow. The result communicated back in this instance is "Job's done!".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Finally, `AsyncCompletionClient` was used to asynchronously communicate the result of the asynchronous Activity back (identified by the Task Token) to the Workflow. The result communicated back in this instance is "Job's done!".
```

Author: fixed

# How to Asynchronously Complete Activities

Asynchronous Activity Completion uses Task Tokens to track the specific Activity that was executed. Task Tokens are unique identifiers for an Activity Task Execution and are passed into the Activity as an argument. It's essential for Temporal to track the specific Activity instance across machines.

> To use Asynchronous Activity Completions, there are three steps to follow:

Reviewer 2: This says "three steps to follow" but I initially saw only two. Only after I read a few paragraphs further did I see the third. 

I'd suggest keeping the list tight, with only a short summary of each step, and going into more detail about each step after the list (possibly adding a heading corresponding to each step and providing the detail below that, similar to what you did on the [Developing Signals](https://github.com/temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript-content/blob/signals/signaling-your-workflows/developing-signals.md) page)

> 1. **Provide Identifying Information**: The Activity provides the external system with identifying information needed to complete the Activity Execution. Identifying information can be a Task Token or a combination of Namespace, Workspace ID, and Activity ID.

Author: Whoops! Fixed

# How to Asynchronously Complete Activities

Asynchronous Activity Completion uses Task Tokens to track the specific Activity that was executed. Task Tokens are unique identifiers for an Activity Task Execution and are passed into the Activity as an argument. It's essential for Temporal to track the specific Activity instance across machines.

To use Asynchronous Activity Completions, there are three steps to follow:

1. Provide the external system identifying information of the Activity.
2. Throw a `CompleteAsyncError` Error to indicate to the Worker that Activity is not yet complete but to "forget" about the Activity momentarily.

> 3. Optionally, while the external work is being done, the Temporal Client can send Heartbeats to update the progress of the Activity Execution.

Reviewer 3: There ought to be a fourth step: Actually complete the Activity, using the Async Completion Client.

> 3. Optionally, while the external work is being done, the Temporal Client can send Heartbeats to update the progress of the Activity Execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Optionally, while the external work is being done, the Temporal Async Completion Client can be used to send Heartbeats and provide update on progression of the Activity Execution.
```

Let's dive into these above steps in more detail.

> 1. **Provide Identifying Information**: The Activity provides the external system with identifying information needed to complete the Activity Execution. Identifying information can be a Task Token or a combination of Namespace, Workflow ID, and Activity ID.

Reviewer 3: I think we haven't documented this anywhere yet, but in cases where an Activity Task Token is shared with an external party, it should be treated as security-sensitive information. That is, they should encrypt a task token before sharing it with external parties, and should verify authenticity of a task token when receiving such a token.

For context: even though they appear to be opaque tokens, an Activity Task Token really are protobuf serialized structures that contains things like the workflow id and run id, the activity's type, position in history, etc. Therefore, exposing an Activity Task Token to third parties could leak some internal details about the workflow. It would also be possible for someone to maliciously-alter the content of a token before passing it back to the application. The probability of success of such an attack seems very low, but it's still pertinent to encourage devs to be careful.

2. **Async Activity Completion**: When an Activity is supposed to be completed by an external system, the Activity function signals this by throwing a [`CompleteAsyncError`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/activity.CompleteAsyncError). This indicates that the Activity is not yet complete.

> When the `CompleteAsyncError` is thrown, the Worker that is executing the Activity understands that this Activity is not yet complete and that it should not wait for the Activity to finish in the normal synchronous manner.

Reviewer 3: Indentation for these paragraphs are incorrect. Don't know if our LMS's markdown implementation support this, but generally, you would need to add 4 spaces at the beginning of this paragraph so that it aligns properly with the numbered paragraph above.

> When the `CompleteAsyncError` is thrown, the Worker that is executing the Activity understands that this Activity is not yet complete and that it should not wait for the Activity to finish in the normal synchronous manner.

Reviewer 3: > When the `CompleteAsyncError` is thrown, the Worker that is executing the Activity understands that this Activity is not yet complete and that it should not wait for the Activity to finish in the normal synchronous manner.
>
> Temporal marks this Activity as 'in progress' but does not actively track it for completion within the Worker. This essentially makes the Worker "forget" about the Activity.

I'm slightly uncomfortable with the language we use to describe this process. This makes it sounds like if this was some kind of magic trick that you play on the worker. I mean, Async Task Completion really goes back to the cluster.

I suggest something like this:

By throwing `CompleteAsyncError`, the Activity indicates to the Temporal Cluster that further progress regarding this activity (including completion or failure, as well as periodic heartbeating) will come in from a different system. That also means that this Activity Worker is no longer responsible for this activity task, and can therefore poll new activity tasks.

Temporal marks this Activity as 'in progress' but does not actively track it for completion within the Worker. This essentially makes the Worker "forget" about the Activity.

The actual completion of the Activity is then handed over to an external system. This external system is responsible for eventually signaling the completion of the Activity.

> 3. **Use Temporal Client**: Optionally, while the external work is being done, the Temporal Client can send Hearbeats to update the progress of the Activity Execution. Once the completion signal is received from the external system, Temporal then resumes the Workflow execution from the point where the Activity was left off. To asynchronously complete an Activity, call[`AsyncCompletionClient`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.AsyncCompletionClient) which is a client for asynchronous completion and Heartbeating of Activities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. **Heartbeating**: While working on the activity, the external system may use an [`AsyncCompletionClient`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.AsyncCompletionClient) to send Activity Hearbeats to the cluster. Doing so allows the activity to provide progress details regarding the Activity Execution. It also informs the cluster that the activity is still actively being worked on. Failure to send heartbeats before the expiration of `heartbeatTimeout` will cause the server to retry the activity.

4. **Completing the activity**: When appropriate, the external system notifies the Temporal Cluster that the activity has completed by using an [`AsyncCompletionClient`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/client.AsyncCompletionClient).

    Once the completion signal is received from the external system, Temporal then resumes the Workflow execution from the point where the Activity was left off. 
```

```typescript

> import { CompleteAsyncError, Context } from "@temporalio/activity";

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import { CompleteAsyncError, activityInfo } from "@temporalio/activity";
```

import { AsyncCompletionClient } from "@temporalio/client";

export async function doSomethingAsync(): Promise<string> {
  //extracts task token

>   const taskToken = Context.current().info.taskToken;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  const taskToken = activityInfo().taskToken;
```

  setTimeout(() => doSomeWork(taskToken), 1000);
  throw new CompleteAsyncError();
}

// this work could be done in a different process or on a different machine
async function doSomeWork(taskToken: Uint8Array): Promise<void> {
  const client = new AsyncCompletionClient();
  // does some work...
  await client.complete(taskToken, "Job's done!");
}
```

Let's look at the above code step by step:

1. We began by extracting the Task Token that uniquely identifies the current Activity execution.
2. We then scheduled `doSomeWork` to be executed after a delay. The delay represents a stand-in for more complex asynchronous operations, like waiting for an external API response or processing that happens in a separate system.

> 3. We then threw the `CompleteAsyncError` to make the Worker forget about this Activity. This signaled that the Activity has not completed yet and is waiting for an external completion, not immediately upon the function's return.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. We then threw the `CompleteAsyncError` to inform the Cluster that this Activity's completion will come through a different path (i.e., the current Worker is no longer responsible for this Activity Task).
```
